Note:  Please consider adding CVE-1999-0626 as a reference inside this rule.

Rule:  
alert tcp $EXTERNAL_NET any -> $HOME_NET 111 (msg:"RPC portmap request rusers"; content:"|01 86 A2 00 00|";offset:40;depth:8; reference:arachnids,133; classtype:rpc-portmap-decode; flags:A+; sid:1271; rev:2;)

--

Sid:
1271

--

Summary:
Someone probed for the rusers RPC service, possibly to gather information
before an attack.

--
Impact:
An attacker may have gotten a listing of the users logged into the target
system.

--
Detailed Information:
The rusers RPC service is used to remotely list all logged in users on a
machine.  Discovering this information may be useful to an attacker.
Because of the nature of RPC, the actual rusers access occurs in a seperate
network session on an arbitrary port.

--
Attack Scenarios:
An attacker runs a vulnerability assessment tool, or the standard Unix
rusers command.  The attacker may use information gleaned from this to
better target his attacks.

--
Ease of Attack:
Tools to probe the rusers service come standard with most Unix variants.

--
False Positives:
Listing the users logged in is exactly what the rusers system is designed
to do.  It is unwise to run on a security-conscious network, but there may
be some legitimate uses of rusers.

--
False Negatives:
This signature detects probes of the portmapper service for rusers, not
probes of the rusers service itself.
Due to the nature of RPC services often sitting on fairly arbitrary ports,
it may not be possible for a NIDS to reliably detect (mis)uses of the
rusers service itself.  If no probe is detected against the rusers service
itself, do not assume that there was no such activity.  The opposite is also
true; an attacker may attempt to go directly to the rusers port without
querying the portmapper service, in which case this signature will not fire.

--
Corrective Action:
Try to determine whether the target system was running rusers or not.  Because
the rusers service itself represents a potentially dangerous exposure,
consider disabling the rusers service if it has not already been disabled.
Try to determine whether this activty was part of a larger reconnaissance
effort, predecessor to an attack, or legitimate use.

--
Contributors:

--
Additional References:
CVE:  CVE-1999-0626
