

--
Rule:
alert udp $EXTERNAL_NET any -> $HOME_NET 31335 (msg:"DDOS
Trin00\:DaemontoMaster(PONGdetected)";
content:"PONG";reference:arachnids,187; classtype:attempted-recon;
sid:223; rev:1;) 

--
Sid:
223

--
Summary:
A pong packet for the Trinoo (aka trin00) DDos suite was
detected heading from a trin00 client (daemon) to the trin00 master.
This is in response to a "png" command (ping) from the master.

--
Impact:
System comprimise if the PONG packet was destined for your machine
(indicating your machine is the master).  On the flipside, if your
machine is the one sending the PONG packet, chances are high that you
have also been comprimised.  Once a machine becomes part of a trin00
network, a Denial of Service (DoS) is typically initiated against one
(or more) victim machines.

--
Detailed Information:
Trinoo was the first DDoS tool to make serious headlines.  Once the
client has been installed on a comprimised machine and a master is
ready and listening, the master sends a "png" (ping) command to its
drones in an attempt to see who is alive.  A client that is alive will
respond to port 31335/udp with the text "PONG".

--
Attack Scenarios:
As part of a large scale attack against a machine or a network, an
attacker will comprimise large numbers of machines which will form the
army that the trin00 master daemon will command.  The master daemon
typically instructs the clients to send mass-quantities of packets to
a set of victim hosts.  If the traffic is sufficient, the victim
machines will become resource deprived.

--
Ease of Attack:
Medium.  Use of this tool requires a comprimised system from which to
to run (unless you choose to just run it on your own machine).  Once a
machine has been comprimsed, 

--
False Positives:
Rare.  The current version of trin00 ships with a configuration
sending a PONG packet over udp to port 31335.  Communication via udp
to such a high port is fairly uncommon.  That, coupled with the
PONG string, make this rule fairly foolproof.

--
False Negatives:
Rare unless newer versions change port/protocol/message.

--
Corrective Action:
Disconnect your machine(s) from the network immediately.  Attempt to
determine if your machine was being used as part of a trin00 network.
This may be difficult, given that the system has likely been
comprimised and had a root kit installed.   

--
Contributors:
Jon Hart <warchild@spoofed.org>

-- 
Additional References:
http://www.sans.org/newlook/resources/IDFAQ/trinoo.htm
